Cooperative Linux $CO_VERSION README
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Instructions for running Cooperative Linux for Windows (see source for
how to build and run coLinux for Linux)

WARNING: 

  Although Cooperative Linux may be actually useful on some setups
(e.g, stable setups), it is still meant for testing purposes only.
This means that running it may crash the host (Windows or Linux system).

  PLEASE REPORT and read about problems on the colinux-devel@sourceforge.net
mailing list or file an Bug report at 
http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/colinux

NOTES ON UPGRADING:

 Upgrading from coLinux 0.7.3 and before
 -- Some dev distries increase eth1, eth2, eth3, ... on every boot.
    Typicaly have no network, but can see it with "cat /proc/net/dev".
    As workarrount set an unique MAC address for all network interfaces
    in config file. Or disable udev.
    Debian: Remove all entries from /etc/udev/rules.d/z25_persistent-net.rules

 Upgrading from coLinux 0.6.4 and before
 -- XML config files have been removed.  Use the command-line
    syntax in a name=value per line plain text file instead:

	kernel=vlinux
	initrd=initrd.gz
	mem=32
	cobd0=fs\root_fs
	cobd1=fs\swap_fs
	eth0=slirp
	root=/dev/cobd0
	ro

    Locate for tool "colinux-xml2cfg", a XML to CFG converter for coLinux.

 -- The file initrd contains no modules.  Modules are only in the file
    vmlinux-modules.tar.gz.  The initrd extracts modules over device cofs31
    automaticly, if you configure it as "initrd=initrd.gz" in config file.
    After modules are installed, you can remove the initrd from config.

 Upgrading from coLinux 0.6.1 and before
 -- Gentoo users need to be careful, Gentoo tends to use devfs when
    upgrading from 0.6.1 and so block device names change from cobdX to cobd/X
    and render the image unbootable.  For more details and solutions see the
    2.6 related information on the Wiki.


RUNNING:

To run Cooperative Linux, please follow these instructions before trying to
run anything.

1. Run the downloaded installer file to begin the installation.
   Under Vista must run the installer via 'run as ...' and the admin account.

2. Choose an installation directory. It is better to choose c:\coLinux because
   this way you don't need to edit the configuration file since the pathnames
   of block devices files are currently aboslute. However, note that any
   directory should be acceptable.

3. Choose networking method(s) to install. Currently there are three choices:

	a. Slirp - The simplest way to use networks in coLinux.  This runs as
	user application on the Windows host and needs no changes on the host
	networks.  Slirp is a good choice for dialup networks and WLAN cards.
	Slirp use all times the current outgoing interface and forwards (NAT)
	networking from linux to the internet world.  Slirp is a virtual
	Gateway for all outgoing TCP and UDP connections (no IMCP, no ping).
	Standard installation works as firewall to your linux.  It means, you
	can not connect from windows side to your linux.  To allow incomings
	from host system to linux, must additional configure 'redirections'.
	Slirp has a DHCP-Server for linux side.  To use slirp, edit your CFG
	file and set "slirp" as first parameter.  Inside linux use DHCP-Client
	to get your network configuration.

	b. TAP driver - This method installs a virtual network adapter that
	is typically a separate network between Linux guest and Windows host.
	This can then be either shared or bridged with a physical network
	connection.  Note that this requires Internet Connection Sharing
	or Bridging (Windows XP or higher) or a 3rd party Internet connection
	sharing application.  The TAP method autmatically chooses the TAP
	first TAP adapter it finds, if you have multiple TAP WIN32 devices, you
	can specify the specific adapter by name (for sample "TAP-Colinux").

	c. Bridging - This method allows the Cooperative Linux network
	interface to directly interoperate with one of your built in networking
	interfaces.  You'll need to edit the configuration file to reflect
	that type "ndis-bridge" and the 'name' parameter needs to be set to a
	substring of the network connection name that you will be bridging
	with (e.g. "Local Area Connection"). Bridging does not working with
	WiFi cards.

	You can select all types on installation and use one of these later.
	See the Wiki at the page 'Network' for more information/help.

4. Choose whether to download a root file system from the Cooperative Linux
   sourceforge page. The installer will try to download directly in 
   the next step but if you experience any issues you can visit the
   Sourceforge page directly at:

   http://sourceforge.net/projects/colinux/files/

   NOTE ABOUT DISK SPACE: Each image extracts to over 1GB (or more), so make
   sure you have enough space there before you start downloading/extracting
   it. If you are manually downloading, put the extracted file in the 
   installation directory.  To unzip .bz2 files, you can use Winzip or 7-Zip
   (or the bzip utilities in Cygwin, etc).  The image MUST be extracted from
   the compressed archive before use!

   See "Quick running" (below), if you would not download an image file in
   this step.  You can download an image file from SourgeForge later.

5. Edit the config file to point to whatever root file system you
   downloaded and replace the file name 'root_fs' with yours.

6. The installation directory should include vmlinux, example.conf, the
   supplied linux.sys driver and executables, and probably the root
   filesystem image. Be sure to review the config file for any additional
   configuration that may be needed.

   Refer the file colinux-daemon.txt in coLinux installation for the
   full list of device parameters.

7. Run coLinux. The current directory should be the installation directory,
   if not, then you need to change paths (especially for vmlinux) in the
   config file.

	a. Run as an regular application.

		colinux-daemon.exe @example.conf

	   See file colinux-daemon.txt for details about possible
	   command-line arguments.

	b. Running as an service.

		colinux-daemon.exe @example.conf --install-service "Cooperative Linux"

	   Also, to remove the service:

		colinux-daemon.exe --remove-service "Cooperative Linux".

	   Then go to the Service Manager and start the "Cooperative Linux"
	   service,
	   OR start from command prompt:

		net start "Cooperative Linux"

	   Last, go to the installation directory and double-click on

		colinux-console-fltk.exe  OR
		colinux-console-nt.exe

   The console window opens and you would see a Linux machine booting in
   that window.


Quick running
-------------

If you wand only quick check, what coLinux is, and how it works, you can
run a very limited linux shell from the ramdisk file.  For this you not
needs to download an image file, and no need any networking.
For such test use this command line:

	colinux-daemon kernel=vmlinux initrd=initrd.gz root=/dev/ram0

Try some Linux commands: sh, ls, cd, pwd, uname -a, halt (shutting down).


Post Installation
-----------------

You may wish to set up some post installation parameters, including increasing
the amount of memory allocated to Cooperative Linux, or adding swap partition.
See colinux-daemon.txt and the Wiki for additional help on these tasks.


Common Problems
---------------

    "Unable to mount root fs"

	Generally this means that the root filesystem image is
	missing, was specified incorrectly, or not uncompressed.

	Check the device name and index (cobd0, hda1).
	Verify, that the filename behind (cobd0=...) exist and is
	readable from current working directory, try it with a
	simple "DIR ..." on command prompt.

    "Vista admin"

	Under Vista an user within administrator group must run the file
	C:\Windows\system32\cmd.exe from explorer context menu "run as ..." and
	admin account to installing the driver or service from command line.

    "no network after update" or "network interface increments on every boot"

	Since PCI is enabled, some distris create a new network interface
	eth1, eth2, eth3, ... on every boot, because coLinux creates a new
	randomly MAC on every boot. As workarrount set an unique MAC for all
	network	interfaces in config file. See examples in colinux-daemon.txt
	Debian: To go back with eth0 must remove all ethX entries from
	/etc/udev/rules.d/z25_persistent-net.rules
	"cat /proc/net/dev" shows all current networks names in coLinux.

  Additional problems not know at time of release are typically
documented on the Wiki (http://colinux.wikia.com/), look
there for known problems.  If your problem isn't listed, report on the
colinux-devel@sourceforge.net mailing list or file an Bug report at
http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/colinux


Developing, Helping out the Project
-----------------------------------

   Check out the source code, and or the Home page
(http://www.colinux.org) for more on developing coLinux and/or helping
the project out.  Also, subscribing to the Mailing List is helpful.


Getting Help
------------

The following resources are available if you need help getting going, or find 
bugs, etc.

	IRC
		The official IRC location is at server irc.oftc.net,
		channel #colinux.

	WEB
		The official website, containing downloads, documentation,
		FAQ, WIKI, etc., is at http://www.colinux.org

	Project Web-site
		Source Forge Project website is at 
		http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/colinux

	WIKI
		The community has contributed wonderful and helpful
		information on numerous topics, which is available at
		http://colinux.wikia.com/
		(You can contribute here too!)

	Mailing Lists
		Visit the colinux.org website and choose from the available
		mailing lists (user and devel) to join, view archives, etc.


-
Dan Aloni
da-x@gmx.net

Richard Goodwin (readme portions)
colinux@newdiversions.com

George P Boutwell (readme updates, fixes, etc)
george.boutwell@gmail.com

Henry Nestler (scripting, kernel, fixes, devel releases)
henry@bigfoot.de
